# Daniel Lier - Portfolio
Portfolio to showcase my skills and previous projects.

<h1>Projects</h1>
<h2>Babysitter Portal</h2>
<a href="https://github.com/ElderGnomeChild/ParkCitySitters" target="_blank">Repository</a><br>
	In my Web Apps class, our group of three developers and two designers worked with a local small business to develop a web app that would suit their needs. The idea was to create a system that would allow the owner to post jobs on the website so that babysitters could claim them without further action from the owner. We used Django for our back-end, MariaDB for our database, Apache for our web server and Mod WSGI for our middleware. The project was hosted on a virtual machine on Westminster's computer science server.
	<br><br>This project heavily developed my group working and problem solving skills. We were a large group of students in different majors working with a client who has a real business with real needs. Communication became very important as the project progressed and challenges arose. This semester-long project was perhaps the most intense and lasting learning experience I've had at Westminster. I don't think I'll ever forget the time I spent with that group on this project.

<br><h2>Chatroom</h2>
<a href="https://github.com/ElderGnomeChild/chat-server" target="_blank">Repository</a><br>
	For my Computer Networks class, the final project was to design a protocol as a class and build a chatroom client and server. The requirements for the chatroom were that it would be able to handle public messages with multiple clients connected simultaneously and allow users to privately message each other. I did this assignment with a partner and we wrote both the client and the server in Java.
	<br><br>This assignment felt important to include in my portfolio because it's centered around client-server interaction. This was the culmination of a long learning process where we slowly worked up to a fully functional networking program over the semester. This project broadened my system-level understanding of the computer and helped me understand the concepts and techniques of software design. It also reinforced my teamwork and problem solving skills.

<br><h2>Waste Project</h2>
<a href="https://github.com/ElderGnomeChild/wasteproject" target="_blank">Repository</a><br>
	The final project for my Database Systems class was to build a program that used a database. My group worked with the environmental center at Westminster College to create a system that could track and classify the waste picked up from campus. The experience was one that encompassed three of the computer science program's four learning goals. It helped me understand software design, acquire significant project experience, and develop effective problem-solving skills. We, as a group, had to design a piece of software that solved a problem facing the environmental department at our school. 
	<br><br>I chose this assignment for my portfolio because it heavily involves interacting with a database. Back-end development is something of a strong suit of mine and this is the first project where I honed those skills. In addition, it was the first group programming project I had as well as the first time a group of mine had to produce a deliverable, usable piece of software. Java was the primary language that we programmed in for this project. We used Java Swing for our user interface and SQLite for our database.

<br><h2>Math Game Project</h2>
<a href="https://github.com/ElderGnomeChild/SoftwareEngineering" target="_blank">Repository</a><br>
	In my Software Engineering class, the entire semester was devoted to planning and creating a math game for first and second graders. We used Agile project management and developed in three sprints with releases and presentations after each sprint. This project leaned heavily into the CS department's software design learning goal. We had frequent meetings and periodic planning periods where we talked about the best way to design and improve our software. 
	<br><br>This assignment is relevant for my portfolio because it entails the evolution of my back-end experience through use of Django as well as some basic website creation and game design. I used Django to create a login system with two different user types: teachers and students. Teachers can see students' progress as well as add students to their class. Students can play the math game and see their previous progress. I used Unity  and C# to create the game that the students would play. The 3d and movement graphics were pulled from the Unity asset store and the 2d sprites were drawn by one of my groupmates. This project was my first experience with Django and Unity as well as my first experience with web hosting.

<br><h2>Website to Microcontroller</h2>
<a href="https://github.com/ElderGnomeChild/Adafruit-Circuit-Playground" target="_blank">Repository</a><br>
	In my Computer Systems and Programming class, the final project was to make a small nginx website on a Raspberry Pi. The website would need to interact with an Arduino microcontroller in a way that could be seen outside the computer. We decided to have the query string on our website determine the color of some LEDs we had hooked up to our Raspberry Pi. We had four different color settings that would show up based on the website's query string. 
	<br><br>This is the only project here on my portfolio where there was some outside hardware involved. The addition of this external piece ramped up the problem solving aspect of this project significantly. There's a whole new system to troubleshoot when hardware is added to the mix. This project was also big for my understanding of the computer system. Working with a Raspbery Pi, I learned how much of a comuter can be taken for granted as something that's just part of the base device. We had to install the OS on an SD card and get a mouse, keyboard, and monitor to even use the Pi before we could start programming. Overall this project was unique from anything else I've done at school and was a lot of fun.
	
<br><h1>Resume</h1>
My most current resume can be found <a href="https://github.com/ElderGnomeChild/Portfolio/blob/master/Resume.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>.
